There are lots of ways to make a decision. You
could flip a coin, you could follow your heart, or
you could just make a choice at random and hope
for the best. That's probably okay for small decisions, but
what about more important ones? It's better to think carefully
about your options and consider the many paths you could
take. With the right tools, you can learn to do
this objectively so you can make decisions that you feel
good about. Here are some strategies that can help.
The first step to making any decision is simple: identify
the problem. As an example, say you're trying to choose
between two different apartments. One is cheaper but farther away
from work. The other is closer and nicer, but much
more expensive. Which one would you choose? Depending on what
you value, you probably have some idea. This initial response,
the one tied to your instincts and emotions, is perfectly
valid. However, you should also try to look at your
options rationally. Start by comparing them. There are
several ways to do this. For example, you could list
all the factors that you're considering, things like price, location,
and other amenities. Then choose the one thing that's most
important to you. With that in mind, which option comes
out on top? You could go one step further and
create a point system. Take that same list and turn
it into a scorecard for each option. In this example,
that means apartment one would score high on affordable rent,
let's say a ten, but much lower on location. Apartment
two would score about the opposite. Keep going down the
list until you've scored every item, being as objective as
you can. Then add up the totals, and maybe you
have a winner. Looking at it another way, you could
evaluate one option at a time with a list of
pros and cons. It sounds simple, but sometimes it helps
to write these things down. This time it's okay to
be subjective. Certain factors can and should carry more weight
than others. It's how you feel about them that counts,
so be honest about what these things mean to you.
Imagining possible outcomes might give you some perspective on the
decision. Say you're thinking about adopting a dog. What do
you think the consequences might be in a month? In
a year? How about several years from now? Making
decisions can be a rollercoaster ride, especially when there are
long-term consequences to think about. We can't see into the
future, but we can try to be prepared. At this
point, it's normal to feel overwhelmed, even stuck. With so
much to consider, how do you know you're making the
right choice? There are two more techniques that can help
you fire up your brain and trick it into thinking
differently. Try this one: the two-minute diversion.
Distract yourself with a two-minute activity that you find moderately
difficult. Maybe you like playing mobile games or solving math
problems for fun. Whatever works for you. Believe it or
not, you'll continue to process the decision unconsciously, according to
brain imaging research by Carnegie Mellon University. This brief window
of time helps you internalize important details so you can
make better, more insightful decisions. Sometimes it helps
to step outside yourself and pretend you're helping someone else.
Studies show we're able to think more objectively in third
person. That's why it's easier to give advice than it
is to receive it. If a friend or family member
was struggling with the same decision, what questions would you
ask them? What compromises would you suggest? Really think about
it. Adopting a different point of view might help you
see the situation in a whole new way. Making decisions
isn't like taking a test. There are no right or
wrong answers per se. It just depends on the situation.
Focus on taking the time to think about your options
and what you hope to achieve so you can feel
confident about the choices you make. It's not as easy
as flipping a coin, but it's worth the extra effort.
GCF Global, creating opportunities for a better life.